#summary How to install jars for Planning4J
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Installation =

Planning4J is best use with [http://maven.apache.org/ Apache Maven], it may however be used without it as well, but there are quite a few dependencies to download with the project, so consider well, if you shouldn't really be using Maven for your build. If not, see below.

Currently Planning4J consists of 6 artifacts:

  * *planning4j-base* Interfaces and other base classes needed by all the other artifacts
  * *external-planners-executor* Interface to use external planners that comply with the [http://ipc.icaps-conference.org/ International Planning Competition] specifications. Refactored from [http://code.google.com/p/itsimple/ ItSimple project].
  * *external-planners-pack* A pack of compiled planners for windows and unix platforms to be run with external-planners-executor
  * *external-validation* Compiled VAL plan validator for both Windows and Linux, to be used in connection with the validation API
  * *sicstus-planners* Planners running with Sicstus Prolog, currently under development.
  * *ANA planner connector* A connector for ANA`*` JAVA Planner. See [UsingANA Using ANA*] for specific instructions.

= Maven installation =

Add AMIS repository to your project
{{{
        <repository>
            <id>amis-artifactory</id>
            <name>AMIS Artifactory</name>
            <url>http://diana.ms.mff.cuni.cz:8081/artifactory/repo</url>
        </repository>

}}}

Add dependency on Planning4J artifacts to your project:

{{{
        <dependency>
            <groupId>cz.cuni.amis.planning4j</groupId>
            <artifactId>planning4j-base</artifactId>
            <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>cz.cuni.amis.planning4j.external</groupId>
            <artifactId>external-planners-pack</artifactId>
            <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>cz.cuni.amis.planning4j.external</groupId>
            <artifactId>external-planners-executor</artifactId>
            <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
        </dependency>
}}}

= Downloading JARs manually =

If you do not use maven, you can download the jars manually from our artifactory. The most current version (snapshot) can be found at 

http://diana.ms.mff.cuni.cz:8081/artifactory/libs-snapshot-local/cz/cuni/amis/planning4j/

The current stable version can be found at

http://diana.ms.mff.cuni.cz:8081/artifactory/libs-release-local/cz/cuni/amis/planning4j/

The artifacts have quite a few dependencies (consider using Maven, it handles them automagically  ;-)). To see a list of dependencies see the [http://diana.ms.mff.cuni.cz:8080/job/Planning4J/site/ maven generated site] of our project. (look under artifact name -> dependencies) 

Currently the most dependencies are connected to the external-planners part and those can be seen at http://diana.ms.mff.cuni.cz:8080/job/Planning4J/site/external-planners-executor/dependencies.html

Sorry it's not more user friendly. 
However, if you want to use Planning4J without Maven, you may also try to ask nicely at [http://groups.google.com/group/planning4j-support Planning4J forum] and it is very likely I will fix a single-jar (or zip) distribution for you.